Nature is self-luminous clarity status. It is empty. It is clarity. It is essence of the nature,
nature, nature.
And from that, oh yeah, so this is also known as, he used many different terminology, I already
said those, and the Dhaka Garbha, and the Dharmakaya, Pandya Paramata, and the Salt Bone Buddhas,
all those different names, names that is all that same thing, is, from this, now, how this is
started the delusions.
This is, Janel again, said here, this nature is pervasive nature. Nature has no partialities. It's
open. But senses arise energy. Energy arises when sentient beings, when this energy arises from
that nature.
Then we sentient beings, beings not immediately recognize that is self-arising energy, and we play
subtle thoughts of the subject and objects, kind of separations, subject and object.
That is, when you play that thoughts, that is then beginning of the ignorance. That subtle thought
of subject and object, and when that subtle grasp of small division thoughts, even though it is
your own display, our own display, but yet didn't kind of immediately realize that and play as
subject and object.
That's the subject and object notion, and from that, then begin to extend the ignorance.
That beginning ignorance is, great master pointed out, as ignorance, salt bone ignorance, is that
moment. So that means, original ignorance, that tells us.
With that, kind of a little bit stronger, and then, again, that didn't stop the display. Arising
energy didn't stop there, began to, simultaneously expanding more, and then grasping the subject,
object and object, started expanding.
Not just expanding, also same time. Then we had more, a little bit stronger, strength of the
grasping, one after another.
From that, and then all the emotions arises, and a little bit, that is, so, and that is, then, as
the emotions, and then, all the, not such as emotions, the seed of the attachment, and as well as
anger, and then yellows, and then, aerobics, and big that, and toghed with that.
And then hope and fears. All that begins arises. This is, with that happening, that is known as,
then, immediately, that habit pattern, that print is, whatever that happening is printed, or that
habit chart, is already started printing, that is known as, then, the alaya that registered every
habit pattern.
That habit pattern is not the different alaya or the ground there, but within that status, within
that ordinary natural status, then all these habit patterns are one after another, kind of like,
imprinted.
That is known as how the sentient beings are deluded. And for that reason, again, here, a great
master taught a quotation from the tantra, tantra, or known as unimpeded tantra, zoki tantra, and
from there, it is similar, similar statement, same thing as, like, spray upon the zapu.
When the, when the, the ordinary natural is not, from the ordinary natural, from the ordinary
natural, from the ground, ground, when the energy arises at that moment, with not recognize that
energy is the same as one's own display, and there is, then, subtle.
Here, he has used the noun, numbness, or numbness, or the still, subtle panic started, subtle panic
, numbness thought as separating the object, that worry is the beginning of the delusion.
That worry is the beginning of delusion, and that was said in the, in the zoki tantra, zoki tantra.
So then, from that ignorance, that subtle ignorance, and then all the different ignorance are
arising. Those are known as seven different, kind of like, subdivisions of ignorance.
Then, that all started, and those are, then here, used as, like, grasping, attachment, dullness,
numbness, and so forth.
I'm not trying to count these things, but however, then it's a little bit also sloppy, twerkingness
, and all that arises, and all together is sub-division of the seventh ignorance, kind of, begin,
sub-pantanous, all that.
And, from that, from this, then, from this ignorance, and then, when it becomes gross, stronger,
then becomes notion of the ego-clinging, my, me, and my self, all that.
When that happen, it happen, then there is also notion of the others, others. We have our self as
clingy to ego-clinging, then others, and that is again a great master, known as the dharma-kriti,
in his teaching, what he said.
He said, moment you grasping to your self, that moment you also projected others, others.
And moment we grasping to our self, we attach to our self, and we start to, kind of, distance
others.
From that, then attachment, and all these emotions arise one after another. So, that's exactly the
same thing.
As we hold to, same thing, he said to, same thing. As we hold to our self, then we, kind of, start
holding others, are different.
And then, through this, then, all the different emotions arise one after another, and that
ignorance is known as exaggeration ignorance.
So here, ignorance, why? Very beginning is this inborn ignorance, all ordinary ignorance, and after
that, more, kind of, level, and that is exaggeration or labeled ignorance.
This ignorance is also, when some kind of ignorance, emotion consciousness. Consciousness, and it
is also part of the mind consciousness, according to the earth consciousness.
Because it is projected as such a subject and object, then, this then is also beginning to have so
many different attachments.
What? So many variety of attachments with ignorance. Ignorance is the continuation, kind of, up-
keeping, maintaining that.
With many, many attachments, such as then, there is all subdivisions, 40 subdivision attachments,
counted in the teaching.
But again, what are those, such as few of those, as the attachment, grasping, clinging, important,
and craving, those all kind of properties.
But anyway, all that is known as then, the attachment, all that arises.
From this attachment, then expanding, more habit patterns, that continue flowing, one after another
, another, and then, more stronger coming, and then, then is known as then, start getting anger is
coming.
But that anger is carried by the powerful, also, force of the wind, wind energy. Wind energy that
comes with attachment in ignorance, strong, pervasive.
And that is then, because of that, that all different kind of habit patterns are grossly began to
come, such as the body, country, and our mind.
And that, through that, then, six of the five consciousness are begin to develop.
And the five consciousness are, then, such as eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, and the sixth is mind.
And that, through that kind of, that, post-carried us, our mind, stabilization, is carried out that
force.
And that, together with the combined, with the, then, the winds, wind energy.
Those are the five root winds, and the five branch winds.
And maybe, I also won't count those five. Five wind, I think many of you heard those before, so
many times.
So, I won't count. So, five wind, root, comes, root, wind, and the five wind that related with the
five organs.
Maybe, I said other day too. But those are the root, the branch winds are related with the five
organs.
The wind of the eye consciousness, wind of the ear consciousness, wind of the nose, and then tongue
and body, those are the branch winds.
And then, five are the root, big five, five. And so, that, this ten becomes the light as force, or
the weakness of the consciousness, and carried everywhere.
And then, also, through that, expanding all the delusions.
All the delusions and projecting back, and resenting that, and then goes on and on, on.
And this is all known as then, also known as emotion consciousness.
All together can be named as emotion consciousness, consciousness.
This, from this, again, all together, what grows lower.
And we are fulfilling this, all the kind of desire things, it's called attachment.
If not, fulfilling everything, and there is a certain kind of like, also, then, hate and the
worries comes.
And those are known as then. That is the angles.
And all angles are kind of, again, subdivisions are thirty-three angles, those are the sub-div
isions.
And what are those? They are really, again, worry, sad, and as well anxieties, and then, as well as
agitations, uncomfortable troubles.
And then, anger itself, tormenting.
In all the trogid, there is thirty-three related with, kind of, a little bit, like, highlighted as
anger, all of this.
But, of course, it has a document, it has ignorance, all of that is not just from anger, anger
itself.
All that is combined trogid.
Every three of those, therefore, known as three poisons, is all combined trogid.
And then, start to working, and all is known as in working.
All these, like, seven ignorance, forty attachment, thirty-three, thirty-three,
I think it all comes, mostly about, like, eighty different emotions.
Yeah, I think eighty different emotions, eighty different emotions.
But, again, it's just different sub-divisions of the way it exists, reflecting, but all is in three
poisons.
Three poisons are the root of the emotions, from that, then, all this expendence.
This goes on and on. That is how the samsara is maintained.
And that's how the samsara is continued.
This becomes our passage, the root being's passage.
And that, all the result, result, whatever it comes, result, that is played in the screens of their
ground.
Same ground of the nirvana, same ground of the enlightenment.
And more, as it's played there, and again, it starts with maintaining, reactivating more and more,
spontaneous, without any effort, without any partnerships, in a way, all that emotions arise in
this.
This is how the samsara beings are diluted.
And this is how the same beings are continued.
And through this, again, here, Great Master said, through this, that power of the inward to the
kind of the physical.
And we have the body, which is then, body, ourself, is based on the three chapter, three of those
elements.
'za', 'long', and 'titties'.
'Titties'. 'Za', 'long', 'titties'.
'Za' is the principle root of the body, and 'long' is then 'win'.
So, channel, wind, essence, element, the body.
And channel is the root of the body, and wind is the, the wind maintaining, as Great Master said.
It's all maintaining, but that is passage of the, that wind, which is travelling with the passage
of the channels,
and mind is carrying throughout the channel, and every direction, this is.
And then, and all that happening, even though there is nothing is really solid existing yet,
but it's all happening on the surface level, or in the relative level, as dream.
Magic dream, and all that happening.
And now all that happening, and the same thing as samsara.
And samsara, and six rims, all three rims, this is.
And we are going unending, unending all the time, as water will.
Water will, and that is how it is.
That is general explanation, ideas of the samsara,
how diluted from same source, or same groan of the nirvana where it comes.
And, and even we are wondering, in samsara like this, this, this is natural, is never affected.
Never ask before, if it is called Buddha natural, there is nothing really changed at all.
That is current, I use the example, or the groan, foundation is never, never changed at all.
Never changed, for that reason, for that reason, in the great tantra known as Tani,
aqua-nipa tantra, is here where there are tantrums.
And that tantra teaching said, all the sentient beings are the Buddha,
yet they are governed by the obscurations, governed by obscurations temporarily, temporarily.
But that means, otherwise, everyone is the Buddha.
As it is, this natural reality level, as it is, as that teaching said,
every sentient being is ordinarily enlightened states, enlightened in three kaya states,
dharmakaya, sambokaya, and dharmakaya states, they are already enlightened states.
That nature of three kaya is glowing, glowing.
Even we are completely deluded in this duality, that fabrication covered up that,
but the nature of this three kaya is believed, is glowing, is believed.
When we reach enlightenment, that three kaya, you just discover, you discover that time is, again,
believed.
I'm using those three words here, in the Tibetan word, "lummy," "lungly," and "lingy."
Those are slightly different, but it shows that even in this power of time, it is glowing,
if I use another word, it's glowing, and it is covered up.
Even we are going all through these different difficulties, but still it's shining.
And when we reach to the Buddhahood, it's still glowing, glowing.
So it's the same thing, nothing really changed.
It is just the nature, nothing changed.
For that reason, this reason, this observation is removable.
It is not ordinary, inherent.
It's not calm with nature.
It is came as temporary.
As when we are dreaming, nightmares, like for example, nightmares, it is not natural.
It is temporary illusion.
Therefore, we can wake up from nightmares, because it's not natural.
Same thing, this whole experience, difficulty, challenge, it looks like so big, so deep, so strong,
so wide.
Yet, it is not natural.
This is not natural, therefore we can do it.
That's the teaching.
Nature is pure.
Nature is believed.
Nature is shining or radiating, "lingy," "lingy," "lingy."
All these words are used, but I don't know exactly how to translate.
Maybe Eric's book has better, but I don't, it's just difficult.
But anyway, so is it brilliant?
Is it glowing?
Is it shining?
Is it brilliant?
Oh, that's the word.
So it's the same thing, nothing really going to change at all.
Change, therefore, we walked exactly right way.
According to nature itself, the call of nature itself, nature of our ground, nature of our mind,
and we walked as that call it, line, call it, then it will lead us back to that nature,
to that ground, or to that organ levels.
And therefore, nature is the Buddha teaching.
Always, what is the call of nature?
It's love.
It's compassion.
It's wisdom.
So those are the simple, again, there's so many bright kind of subdivisions can be said,
or that we went through those roughly, those 37, even there's more numbers, all that.
Those are the call of the true nature, or the radiating energy of the nature of our mind.
And we kind of line up with that and follow that, explain it that,
then we're following part of the nature with nature's qualities.
That will then dispel the obscurations, the delusion that which is not natural.
And that is one of removing obscurations.